Hey guys, I am Deepesh , from ACM Student Chapter IIT(ISM) Dhanbad. In this video, I will be explaining how to implement mobile number verification by sending OTP SMS.

There are many API available for sending SMS by a PHP application.

In this example I have used text local API for sending OTP SMS using PHP.

For that we need to get the API key by login with the text local account. 

This key will be used later for requesting the API to send the OTP SMS to the recipient mobile number.

Text Local Website URL:-  https://www.textlocal.in/

Create new account and login into your account.

Let's have a glance with the example code created for sending OTP SMS using text local API.

Download Source Code from the link provided in the description of the video.

This is the index.php file containing the form to enter the mobile number to be verified by clicking the send OTP button an Information request will be called to
access the PHP file the mobile number and the action.

Parameters are sent with this  request in PHP code these parameters are received and processed the OTP sending with the text local API .

After sending OTP to the mobile number the OTP verification form will be loaded by entering and submitting the correct OTP the mobile number will be verified.

This is the verification.js file containing the JavaScript functions to invoke PHP code for sending and verifying the OTP this is the controller class
which handles the mobile number verification process flow with the switch case these cases are mapped with the action parameter values that are sent via 
the IX request in the send OTP case.

The text local API is instantiated with the API key with the reference of this instance the API, send SMS method is invoked by setting the recipient mobile number.

Once the OTP is generated it will be added to a PHP session and also sent to the target mobile number via SMS the OTP session will be used for the future validation.
This is the code for displaying the OTP verification form to the browser while submitting this form the OTP code is validated in the server-side by comparing it 
with a session variable.

If match found , the success message will be shown to the user in the current OTP session .

This is the text local class which can be downloaded from their official website this API services provided for many programming languages by choosing the language
you can download the API class to integrate it with your application.

Now let's see the output by running this code in the browser. 

This is the landing page to enter your mobile number and by submitting the number the OTP SMS will be sent using text local API after 
sending the SMS the OTP verification form is loaded.

If you submit this form with empty data then the JavaScript validation will return false.

This will stop executing the verification process by showing an error message with the incorrect OTP code.

Enter the correct otp and then submit the form.

It will result in a success response after verifying your mobile number.

Thank you for watching this video and I hope you found this video helpful.
